This episode of Hansel minutes
is brought to you by
Telerx dev craft quarter one
2014. Online conference this Thursday,
March 6th. Learn how dev craft
the most comprehensive dotnet toolbox
can help you build.net apps
twice as fast. Sign up
to see the exciting new
features and action, and for
a chance to win one
of 10 dev craft complete
licenses, registration information is@tellerikdotcomslashdevcraftfromhanselminutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes, a weekly discussion
with web developer and technologist
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number four 12
recorded live Thursday, February 20th, 2014. This
episode of Hansel minutes is
brought to you by teller
offering the best in developer
tools and support online at
dot com and by
franklins.net, makers of gesture are
powerful gesture, recording and recognition
system for Microsoft connect for
windows developers details. Add gesture,
ak.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with full stack developer
with Shane McBean about JavaScript
unit testing with Jasmine. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes, and I'm here in
San Diego at the jQuery
conference. And I'm talking with
Rashane McBean, she's a full
stack web developer, and she
just came off the stage
giving a talk about JavaScript
unit testing. Thanks for chatting
with me, not a problem,
Scott. So JavaScript unit testing,
I get unit testing. That's
cool. And I get JavaScript,
but somehow a JavaScript can,
can run in so many
different places. It can run
in the browser. You can
run the console labs and
node. You can host V8
the Chrome JavaScript engine. Somehow
it just seems more daunting
when you take JavaScript plus
unit testing, it put them
together. And I have to
admit that I don't do
a lot of JavaScript unit
testing. Is that back? Yes
and no, depending on if
you're working with a team
or something, you plan to
come back to you in
a couple of months that
it might get bad. Cause
you might just not remember
what you wrote or the
intention of it. Yeah. So
it's just as important in
JavaScript than it is in
any other language. Yes. And
you, your presentation, you talked
about Jasmine, that's one of
many different choices that I've
got available to me. Correct.
And I chose Jasmine cause
it's very approachable from a
behavior unit driven perspective and
it kind of forces you
to start taking your functions
and making them more object,
literal, friendly, and writing more
testable code. So you will
want to touch to a
code. So I can't just
go and take existing JavaScript
really. And just start like
slap intestine, like just putting
asserts. It's a little different
than that, Right? Yeah. If
you have something that function
within a few functions, it
will be hard to test
that that one expectation actually
happen. And you said this
is more behavior driven, more
BDD than TDD. Right? Right.
The way it looks, it's
like you're describing that I
have this function and when
I come to it and
interact with it, that one
particular thing, or several things
may happen depending on what
is in the function. It
seems like I came from
a world with more TDD
and I kept saying things
like assert assert. And now
with BDD, it's much more
kind of story-driven it's in
you, you you're encouraged to
use sentences inside of your
expectations. That really describe what
your intent was. Correct. Yeah.
You're definitely describing something. That's
very English like to someone
coming to your application, you're
describing the function and you're
setting out these expectations and
seeing if they match particular
outcomes, whether they're true or
false. And now Jasmine is
not necessarily specific to note.
Right? I could use this
with any backend system. This
is really about testing the
Java script that runs in
your client browser, right? Correct.
It's very backend agnostic to
what you're doing. It's all
about testing, what the user's
interacting with in the browser.
And is it a whole
ecosystem of stuff with plugins
like jQuery or does it,
do I really need to
get started? Do I just
need the main Jasmine stuff
To get started? You'll just
need the main Jasmine, the
framework itself doesn't revolve around
the Dom or doing anything
Ajax. Even if your application
needs that you're just testing
your vanilla JavaScript without all
the other layers. But if
you want to test things
like that, there are many
plugins from the community. Popular
ones are Jasmine jQuery, where
you can test like the
events, interactions that are happening
on the page. Then there's
Jasmine Ajax, which tests all
your Ajax and persistence that
may be happening for third
party servers or your I've
done a lot of integration
testing. So on the like
automating the browser, like I
call it putting the browser
on a string, like a
puppet. This is not, that
is that right? This is
not like selenium. No, it's
not like saline in that
sense. Selenium fires up a
whole web browser and test
your app from start to
finish. What Jasmine gives you
is a way to test
isolated client interactions on the
page, on the subset of
your page. So you don't
have to worry about firing
up the whole browser for
that. If you only cared
about what's inter happening on
this particular interaction. Okay. So
I'm not necessarily going to
bring up my web server
and have server-side generated HTML
come across the wire and
test that like, Right. Yeah.
You don't have to worry
about like, cause with selenium
tests, you're firing up the
whole application and you're waiting
for the database and all
those other parts to load
up just to probably test
a click event when Jasmine
kind of gives you, gives
you that to do without
all of the extras. Okay.
So in the integration example,
you just said like a
click event with something like
a selenium or an integration
test, I hit click. There's
an, there's a result of
that, which is the Ajax
call. It goes to a
real database and really does
stuff. And the results come
back and the page changes,
that's a full stack integration
test, right? What's the kind
of stuff that I would
check with Jasmine with an
enclave. So if we're just
worrying about the on click
events, if your users coming
to the page and they
needed a drop down, you
don't necessarily want the whole
selenium browser to do that.
If you're just checking for
interactions. So what the plugin
Jasmine J gives you is
the ability to click on
things, click on the selectors
and check the expectation of
the outcome. Did the dropdown
show, did it stay hidden?
Are these things actually present
now on the page? Whether
or not you're serving back
any data to your database,
you can test those things
right with Jesse, But that
would probably be a separate
test. Like you would break
it down into a piece.
Like if I click this
button, it makes this dropdown
up here. And then I
check the visibility status of
the dropdown. That's one thing
to expect and trust, right?
Yeah. You would want to,
in that scenario, individually test,
like I clicked it, it
opened now that it's open
is the ma is my
name visible to see in
this dropdown is a second
test you can have in
there. And then you want
to, it forces your code
to kind of be granular
in a sense that all
these functions for this particular
event can work without aren't
dependent on the other one.
Okay. So this sounds like
this is going to push
me towards a certain style
of writing JavaScript, Right. And
pushes you to writing more
modular reusable code. So if
I needed events for one
page, they're easily available to
me to use on another
page and I don't have
to write a long 20
line function all over again.
And it sounds like since
there's, there's really no UI,
this is all happening. Just
testing the JavaScript. It's not
talking to my backend server
that I would write a
click handler and make it
a function, as opposed to
just having a bunch of
inline code inside of a
click handler. Like I want
to abstract away my interactions,
Right? Yeah. Yeah. You, you
wouldn't want to click something
and it triggering like five
more things inside there that
you can test it. It
is forcing your, all those
separate interactions to live independently
and therefore you have more
modular and reusable code. So
more kind of single responsibility
principle. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. All
right. So let's think about
this from a hello world
perspective. If I've got a
hello world function that returns
a string at the most
abstract level, I've got a
JavaScript function that returns a
string. And I want to
test that, what do I,
what do I need to
do? So in that instance,
you have your function, hello
world, you would describe it,
which Jasmine, and then you
would set in the spec
what an expectation you want
to come back. So describe
as a function Or is
it a library or what
does it describe? So describe
as given to you from
Jasmine, it's how you describe
your test suite or your
particular function in this scenario.
And then you have these
things called it blocks that
are testing a single component
of your function. So with
hello world, if I only
wanted a test that I
was getting back the world
of hello, I could set
it up as I'm describing
hello or function inside of
it. I expect it to
return world. And my actual
expectation that I set up,
that's also given to you
from Jasmine, we'll expect when
I call this function, that
it contains, contains a matcher
from Jasmine and gives you
World, okay. So let's break
that down cause there's a
lot of really good information
in there. So when you
say describe that's a method,
and then within that you
have a string, which is
your description of that specification,
that yes, that larger method
that we're checking, and then
you have an anonymous function.
So you should describe, you
know, some string anonymous function.
And then within that expect
is also a method which
then takes other anonymous functions.
Right? So yeah, you have
a few anonymous functions going
on there from a higher
level that describe, which takes
a string of any nature
by most convention. People like
to put the name of
the function they're describing, OK.
Then in the it block,
that's taken another anonymous function.
And that that's usually describing
that one particular component you're
testing and this case returning
back to the string world.
And that expectation given to
you from, from the framework
is also going to actually
now call to your actual
hello world function that exists
somewhere else. And then it's
going to match that against
what you're trying to prove
is true or false. And
this instance, we want to
see if the matcher contains
the word hello, and it
will fail our pass accordingly.
Okay. So let's go from,
describe into the, and you
keep saying, get block. This
is another method that does
another function within it. And
the block is, is it
an anonymous function? Yeah, the
iBlock is an anonymous function
that will actually contain the
single component, your tests. Okay.
And then where does the
first English sentence appear? Is
it really inside of that?
It block? The very first
one is in the described
block, which is testing the
whole component of your Function.
So where would I say,
like, you know, hello world
returns, the string world, where
does that English sentence appear?
That particular one will then
be in the it block
can testing that particular account.
Okay. So you're basically saying,
you know, it's, it was
like, it is the case
is kind of implied, right?
It is the case that
hello world returns the string
and then expect, and then
do you have another English
sentence? No. So when you
get down to the expect
level, now that's actually calling
out to your hello world
function and then it will
pass a type of match
or in this case, the
contain and see if it
actually returns backward And then
matchers, that's a Jasmine ism
where a, it's a method
that I use to express
my expectation. Is that right?
Correct. Okay. And what are
some examples of a matcher?
So I'm back playing off
of the whole world. You
can have expect hello world
to equal hello world. That
the whole string is actually
containing hello world. Instead of
just contained to a world.
If your function was involved
in the math, you can
can check if it equal
to anything, you can also
negate these functions by putting
not before them. If you
wanted to prove that something
was actually false, I would
actually have the word not.
So it's like, you know,
hello world, open-close dot, not
dot. And then keep going.
I expect hello world to
not equal hello universe. It
was a very fluent interface.
Yes. And then the jQuery,
Jasmine dot jQuery that it
adds additional matters. Is that
how that plugin extends the
system, Right? So that library
extends the system and you
can also extend the system
yourself. If you find that
your application needs its own
set of matters, that Jasmine,
the framework itself gives you
that ability to the Jasmine
J gray one is giving
you some common custom CSS
matches that you typically use
in the, from the jQuery
framework. Like you want to
check if something was hidden
on the page or if
it exists, does it have
CSS? The, the list goes
on and on and you
can find more at the
GitHub page, Jasmine Jaker. So
Jasmine jQuery, it sounds like
it, it makes Jasmine kind
of speak the language at
the level of granularity that
a jQuery person would expect.
Right. Okay. And is it,
is that adding like lots
of things, like is something
visible or not and bringing
in the CSS, matching the
selector engine? Yeah. So as
long as you're using jQuery
itself, outside of testing, once
you start incorporating testing, you
can use the, anything from
the jQuery API itself to
test within your test. Like
you find an element on
the page and you actually
want to check if it
was visible. So you can
use jQuery itself. You can
use like the dot find.
If you're looking for elements
on your page and then
you can actually then use
the custom matches. You're getting
from Jasmine jQuery to check
that something was visible or
it had CSS. Now, can
I mock things out if
I want to bring some
fake data back? Like if
I have have a function
that is going to go
off and make an Ajax
call, I really want to
test the result of that,
you know, can I return
fake data? Yeah. So there's
this concept of fixtures. There
are Jason ones where you
can model out fake data,
depending on if it's from
your brow, from coming from
your application, the database itself,
or coming from a third
party service, then there's HTML
fixtures as well, where you're
all mocking out your templates
that you're using in various
places that you want to
test with Jasmine. And those
are clients. I tip lights,
a candle Of ours. Yeah.
Handlebars, regular HTML. Okay. And
if, even though we don't
do a lot of HTML
fixture work, you're basically saying
that I would load those
fixtures. Like a fixture might
be like an HTML file
that represents a small amount
of, of a, of a,
of a handlebars template or
something like that. Yeah. You're
typically testing like partial views
on the page. You don't
need to rerender your whole
page for this fixture. So
those would be isolated partials
in a fixtures folder. And
then what you would do
is you would load that
up when you're setting up
the suite. So back to
the described blocks I was
describing. Right. And before that,
there is a concept of
before each where you can
have a lot of mock
pre data. So in there
is where you would typically
load any partials that you're
testing out. If it's any
fake Jace on data that
you want to make sure
is in there, you load
them up in a before
each. And you can also
clear, clear them out what
an after each, when you
want to start the next
test with a clean slate.
Okay. Okay. So before each
and after each are well
known function names, and if
they had lived within that
described block, they get called
automatically for each Before every
it block. Yeah. Okay. So
then in the context of
an old school TDD person
like me, I think of
that as being like set
up and tear down. Okay.
And then I can bring
in a and change the
scope of things. So like
if I wanted to bring
in any variable that I
make in the, in the,
before each it's available to
me within the Jasmine test.
Correct. Okay. And when I'm
running these, am I doing
this with like the command
line with a runner, like
a node runner of some
kind or Depends. If so,
if depending on how you
set up your local testing
development, you can configure grunt
to do those things. But
if you're very new to
testing and you feel like
automation scares you, you can
just run these directly in
your browser by loading up
a test runner that Jasmine
gives you. And it highlights
things in green or red,
depending on where they're failing,
but that's more of a
manual way to test things.
Once you first start just
getting started, you'll keep refreshing
the browser. But automation is
a thing that all am.
If you're using Ruby that
you can set up rate
tax for that, if you're
using grunt, you can configure
that and other Jasmine's other
JavaScript tests to do that.
Okay. So as a, as
a beginner, I think that
I would probably want to
see it for a while
and see the red and
green. And it just feels
more real. And then once
I, okay, like I get
it, I'm able to add
some and then I would
graduate. You would graduate to
like putting that in your
terminal. So you can only
see all red or green
dots depending on how you
configure it. And, but you
can also see like English
sentences, you're almost building English
sentences. Cause I noticed that
you have a lot in,
in the test that you
showed me, you have a
lot of, a lot of,
you know, I say English.
I mean, what I mean
by that is prose. You
know, you're not just putting
like one word here, like
expect it works. You know,
it didn't, you literally had
like, you know, it is
the case that the button
is, is visible. So are
you, are you stringing those
sentences together so that when
you run that test at
the command line, you're going
to get like a whole
story about whether or not
the thing worked or not.
Right? So yeah, When it
starts from that higher level,
like we described the hello
world and then it will
concatenate onto it. When, if
you're running them in the
browser will concatenate the it
block of eight should print
out, hello world. If you
had a further test that
said it should only contain
world, it keeps concatenating anything
that is an it block
scope to anything that is
a described law. And it
sounds like you can have
as many of these events
as you want. And these
expects, Right. You can nest
nest year sweet. So they
looked a lot more cleaner.
You can have multiple describes
within a parent describe and
multiple it's within a singular
described lot Can have multiple
nested describes. So what, what,
what would be an example
of why I would want
to do something like that?
So if you had a
tool tip on the page
tool tips, typically opening close.
So from a higher level,
you'll describe the tool tip,
and then you want to
break down to now I'm
interacting with a tool tip.
So that would be your
second described. So then within
there you can nest that
now I'm interacting with it,
but am I interacting with
when it's open or is
it closed? So within the
interacting block of the describe,
you can have an open
or a close and it
reads down nice and clean
that I've approached this. It
was closed. Here's what happens
when I interact with a
close tool tip. And here's
what happens when I interact
with an open tool. Oh,
okay. So I was initially
thinking that this was a
way to have too many
expectations and kind of overload
the test. But you're, you're
saying this is really more
of a structure thing. Like
when you nest CSS rules
and indent them just to
keep everything all together. Correct.
And then can I, when
I do the test runner,
can I go and just
run like one and just
say like, I don't want
to run the whole thing.
I just want to run
this one. Describe and down
that might be useful. Oh
yeah. I believe you can
do that when you're like
automated things. But if you're
just refreshing the console, it's
just going to refresh everything.
You can also call 'em
when you have the test
runner open, it'll load up
all your tests, but you
can click on them actually.
And then they'll open like
its own window on the
page where you're only looking
at that singular test and
you can keep refreshing that
if particularly that was the
only one. Yeah. And if
it's a problem to run
all of your tests all
the time, you can just
say, I want to focus
on this one thing. Yeah.
How big have you gotten
these? I mean, if you've
gotten into situation with hundreds
and hundreds of tests Yeah.
I'd say one of my
applications, it was nearing 70
or 75, but there's not
really a performance issue because
in a way you're not
really, you're not loading up
the browser like you are
with selenium. So there's nothing
to be worried about from
a performance. All right. Should
I show you right. That's
a good point. I didn't
really think about that. That
it's not a matter of
you're going as fast as
your app can go. You
really are just focusing on
the, the engine of the
JavaScript at its at its
core. And this, are you
finding that this has caused
you to write your JavaScript
really differently, like to separate
it in ways that you
hadn't thought about before to
make it more testable? Yeah.
Cause it made me think
of, there's a lot of
things happening on the page
that normally you just write
the function, not think about
it, but the test is
actually like forced me to
get green layer count for
more scenarios that I didn't
think were possible while I
was before I written the
test. Usually you catch those
things after you've released to
like QA or production, but
the test kind of ensure
a little bit more code
quality before going out the
door. Someone just told me
once that one of the
reasons that you should test
all the time is that
if you, if you fear
your code, then you're in
trouble. Like you write something
and it works. You're maybe
not a hundred percent sure
why it works, but you
know, it does. And you're
just now you don't want
to touch it because you're
afraid of it, that you
should write as many tests
as you can, until that
fear goes away because you
might like change it, break
it in some subtle way.
And that subtle thing that
you broke is exactly the
kind of thing that you
need to test for. Right?
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Definitely ensures
that. I definitely approach new
features for things. And I'm
assured that I'm not really
gonna break something cause because
there's hopefully a test around
that and I won't catch
it too late because my
test will either break that
or by me writing the
test or even me just
writing the new functionality. If
I break something, then I
know that I need to
fix that test and probably
fix my own. Now you
you've talked about interactions with,
with data and interactions, with
tool tips and things like
that, which are very kind
of visual things. When do
you know that you're getting
too close to integration testing
and you need to, Jasmine's
no longer the thing you
want to use. And it's
time to test that in
an integration test When I'm
starting to mock out, I
would say the whole feature
within, within that test, then
I know that like I
need to be doing a
full integration test. So like
the user came to my
site, they logged in and
they did all those things.
Yeah. Sometimes I found myself,
this has happened a couple
of times. I mean, I
think we've all had this
happen where you know, I'm
mocking and I'm mocking and
then I'm like, I've been
mocking for like an hour.
What the hell am I
testing? I'm testing nothing. I
have literally mocked nothing out
to see if that string
equals this. So yeah. It's
time to take a break.
Yeah. That's cool. Is there
an example of something that
just Jasmine is just not
right for? I mean like
interactions, integration, testing, it's just,
yeah. So as you could
do it like that, but
that's not what it's meant
to do if you have
to generate a whole lot
of stuff on that, Right?
Yeah. If you're, yeah. If
you're generating a lot of
like the fixtures and partials
for your Jasmine, I would
probably approach why am I
sure I'm doing the right
testing, but so far it's
been a really good introduction
to testing for client side.
There are things that you're
gonna probably outgrow and start
to look for other libraries
for Jasmine or just another
framework in general. Once you
may find that Jasmine doesn't
fit your standards anymore. And
have you made this a
standard part of your toolkit
now? Yes. I have write
as many Jasmine tests as
I can when I find
them necessary, but I find
that it's a nice compliment
to the integration test. Cause
you don't need to fire
up the browser every time
for something. And how often
do you have these running?
I've heard of people who
saying that they just want
these on another monitor, just
going all the time and
just like refresh, refresh, refresh,
and then other people do
it where they're like just
doing it during a build
where they don't run the
time all the time. Typically
I have them running when,
if I'm touching multiple files
for a feature, I'll kind
of have it watching my
whole application so that if
I touch that file, it'll
automatically run out and break
anything. Typically once I'm done
with the feature and written
my test for it, then
I'll most likely run the
whole build on my machine
first before pushing out. Oh.
Especially when I don't have
my own a dev server,
that's running through a circle
CIO or something like that.
So you're using grunt. That's
your kind of your, your
build system. Yeah. So yeah,
if I'm not doing a
Ruby application, I typically use
Gren. If not, I'll just
use, I'll write a rake
task. Okay. So the, the,
the model is you're writing
your JavaScript. You're writing your,
your Jasmine test you've of
course graduated. So you're not
doing this in the browser.
It's all at the command
line and you just go
over it, you hit grunt
and then see the results
in the command line there
and you know, right away
whether the thing works. Right.
Okay. That's cool. I'm trying
to think if there's anything
else that I would want
to know about Jasmine, are
there any plugins that aren't
the jQuery example that are
like, must have like the
essential Jasmine plugin. I know
your jQuery fan jQuery conference,
but I'm just thinking that
like, other than Jasmine and
Jasmine jQuery are those like
the essentials, There's also a
good one. Jasmine Ajax for
mocking out a lot of
those calls. Is that something
you do a lot? Like
where are you? I mean,
that's an example of interaction
that really kind of is
more appropriate because you're, you're
going to maybe take a
list or an array of
something, do some sorting and
then assert that the result
occurred. But you don't want
to call the actual backend.
You just want to test
the, Yeah. I wanted to
estimate manipulation for that. The
client got back and make
sure like, was it a
successful response or not? And
then what's happening once I
got that response, If you
found out all were Jasmine
will change the behavior of
another library just because it's
cause it's there like jazz
will Jasmine's presence affect any
of your words. No, it's
very Ignacio and very standalone.
You can incorporate it with
other plugins. People have written
for it, like jQuery, the
Jasmine, Jake we're in Ajax,
or you can use other
ones like mocha chai. What
are those? Those are, It
sounds like you guys and
by you guys, I mean
like, like I'm a Microsoft
person, so JavaScript people it's
every possible noun dot JS.
You know what I mean?
You're like, you're just like
naming off kinds of coffee
and I'm supposed to know
that those are JavaScript libraries.
I feel really bad. Like,
you know, I mean, I've
tried to be as up
on this stuff as possible.
And now I've just learned
that mocha and chai or
two things that I want
to know about. Got it.
So a Jasmine tea, I
assume that's why it's called
Jasmine is another drink. I
think this one was called
after Jasmine rice. Okay. So
what are mocha and chai
and how do they relate?
Oh, those are mocha and
chai are another like TDD
and BDD frameworks with chai
though. You have more flexibility
to write in a more
BDD or TDD style. They
give you, there are two
components to the library, so
you can configure it however
you want it to be
readable. Those are things to
graduate to after Jasmine just
cause there are a lot
more configurable, a lot more
extendable. I recommend Jasmine just
cause like you'll understand BDD
and unit testing at the
same time. And it's all
a familiar English like language
to get your feet wet.
And then there's also a
Q unit that jQuery uses
to test jQuery. And that's
more like drill down unit
testing. It doesn't look as
English usually as Jasmine, but
it is. Okay. So you
think that for the, for
the listener who is getting
kind of getting into JavaScript
unit testing, this is the
best, on-ramp not like a
JS unit or Q unit
or something like that. I
would kill you. And it
would be a second. I
recommend Jasmine just cause I,
I grasp it easier coming
from a BDD centric team.
So co moving over to
Jasmine was very natural fit
for me when it came
to testing JavaScript, Q unit
would be my second favorite
before moving on to MOCA
or chai or even a
Sonos, which is for doing
more stubs and mocks S
I N O N I
always been known. I always
mispronounce it. Some people say,
say no, and some people
say sign on it, but
everyone in the community always
seems to know what you're
talking about. Yeah. That's all,
that's all it matters. Yeah.
I think that the I've
had people from BDD communities
on before, and I've always
felt as an, as a
non, let me see as
a test agnostic person. Like
I don't have like a
religious way. I don't really
care, you know, whatever D
D right. As long as
you're testing, whether it's BDD
or TDO and they were
all people always love to
argue about whether it BDD,
UTD, but I think whatever
feels the most comfortable and
whatever feels most intuitive and
whatever you feel yourself naturally
writing would be the framework
that you would then write
towards. Yeah. So it sounds
like BDD is kind of
like where your heart is.
So that just kind of
made sense to move that
direction. Yeah. Okay. And so
people can learn more about
Jasmine at the GitHub Jasmine
page, and then go on
certain Google for Jasmine, and
then we'll put your Twitter
handle a copacetic kid on
the, on the show notes
and they can also reach
out to me. They're very
cool. Well, thank you. We're
Shane McMeen for checking chat
with me today at the
jQuery conference. Okay. Thank you.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .